Add docs for Libre Hardware Monitor integration (#37941)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/librehardwaremonitor.markdown

---
title: Libre Hardware Monitor
description: Instructions on how to integrate Libre Hardware Monitor within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - System monitor
ha_release: 2025.4
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: librehardwaremonitor
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

> The `librehardwaremonitor` {% term integration %} uses your [Libre Hardware Monitor](https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor) installation as a source for sensors that will display system information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `librehardwaremonitor` {% term integration %} uses your [Libre Hardware Monitor](https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor) installation as a source for sensors and display that system information in Home Assistant.

Libre Hardware Monitor is an [Open Source](https://www.majorgeeks.com/content/page/what_is_open_source.html) fork of [Open Hardware Monitor](https://www.majorgeeks.com/files/details/open_hardware_monitor.html) to monitor your computer's sensors such as temperature sensors, fan speeds, voltages, load, and clock speeds.
```

## Prerequisites

> Libre Hardware Monitor must be running on the host, with "Remote web server" active. You also need to open inbound port (TCP 8085) on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Libre Hardware Monitor is installed on the system (host) you want to monitor.
- Libre Hardware Monitor must be running.
- In Libre Hardware Monitor, make sure **Remote web server** active. 
- On the host system, open the inbound port TCP 8085.
```

> To open port (on Windows):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To open a port (on Windows):
```

> 1. Navigate to Control Panel, System and Security and Windows Firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Windows, Navigate to Control Panel, System and Security and Windows Firewall.
```

2. Select **Advanced settings** and highlight **Inbound Rules** in the left pane.

> 3. Right click Inbound Rules and select New Rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Right-click **Inbound Rules** and select **New Rule**.
```
We mark UI strings bold

> 4. Add the port you need to open and click Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the port you need to open and select **Next**.
```
In general, we avoid [click and use select instead](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

> 5. Add the protocol (TCP) and the port number (8085) into the next window and click Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the protocol (TCP) and the port number (8085) into the next window and select **Next**.
```

> 6. Select Allow the connection in the next window and hit Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the next window, select **Allow the connection**, then select **Next**.
```
location before action

> 7. Select the network type as you see fit and click Next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select the network type as you see fit and select **Next**.
```

> 8. Name the rule and click Finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Name the rule and select **Finish**.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
host:

>   description: IP address or hostname of the system where Libre Hardware Monitor is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: IP address or hostname of the system where Libre Hardware Monitor is running. The system you want to monitor.
```

port:
  description:  The port of your Libre Hardware Monitor API. Defaults to 8085.
scan_interval:
  description: Time between updates of data fetched from Libre Hardware Monitor. Allowed values are between 5 and 30 seconds. Defaults to 30 seconds.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Configuration options

In the configuration flow you can choose which hardware devices to add to Home Assistant, e.g. if you only want to monitor your CPU you can deselect any other device.
All sensors will be grouped by the device they belong to. If you do not want all sensors for a device, you can disable entities via the UI after setup.

## Reconfiguration

> This integration allows you to reconfigure an existing entry, e.g. if you want to add or remove hardware devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration allows you to reconfigure an existing entry. For example, if you want to add or remove hardware devices.
```

> 1. Go to **{% my integrations title="Settings > Devices & services" %}**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %}.
```

2. Select the Libre Hardware Monitor integration.

> 3. To reconfigure the settings, click {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} to the right of an entry and select **Reconfigure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To reconfigure the settings, to the right of an entry, select the three dots  {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu and select **Reconfigure**.
```

## Known limitations

> Servers which require authentication are currently not supported.

Reviewer: what does this mean? If I have a computer with a password protected login I can't use Libre Hardware Monitor on it?

Author: I see how that could be confusing. In Libre Hardware Monitor you can set up additional authentication for the remote web server, so requiring username & password to access the web interface. I have rewritten that sentence to clarify this.
I plan on supporting authentication in the near future, but did not want to blow this PR up more than needed at the moment.

## Troubleshooting

### Problem with connection during setup

> Open a browser and navigate to `http://<IP address>:<Port>` of your Libre Hardware Monitor instance, make sure you can see and update the data there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if Libre Hardware Monitor is running properly. On the system running Libre Hardware Monitor, open a browser and navigate to `http://<IP address>:<Port>`. Make sure you can see and update the data there.
```

### Sensors change to "unavailable" status

> This is expected behavior when the computer is not reachable, e.g., it is turned off. Sensors will resume their data readings once the computer is reachable again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is expected behavior when the system you are monitoring is not reachable. For example, because it is turned off. Sensors will resume their data readings once the system is reachable again.
```

### Integration stops working

> Make sure the IP address of your computer running Libre Hardware Monitor has not changed. Ideally, set a static IP address for that computer in your router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the IP address of the system you are monitoring has not changed. Ideally, set a static IP address for that system in your router.
```

---
title: Libre Hardware Monitor
description: Instructions on how to integrate Libre Hardware Monitor within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - System monitor

> ha_release: 2025.4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2025.4
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Sab44'
```

ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: librehardwaremonitor
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

> The `librehardwaremonitor` {% term integration %} uses your [Libre Hardware Monitor](https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor) installation as a source for sensors to display that system information in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Libre Hardware Monitor** {% term integration %} uses your [Libre Hardware Monitor](https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor) installation as a source for sensors to display that system information in Home Assistant.
```
we no longer use the code-fenced version to spell the integration name for integrations that have a config flow. you might still see it for those that are added via YAML config file.
